-Hello, everyone, and welcome
to the attic again.
We just got back from
a week-long hiatus.
Although let's be honest, "back"
isn't quite the right word,
because I didn't go anywhere.
I just sat here
with the lights off,
quietly performing
"Closer Looks" to myself
about how every time I kill
a wasp in the attic,
three more appear
to avenge their kin.
I got so bored,
I started parting my hair
on the other side.
And sure, sure,
I also did some drinking alone,
which is depressing.
I mean, it's always depressing.
But a year ago, I was drinking
with Rihanna,
so this is a precipitous
drop-off.
And look, I know this is
a long shot, but, Rihanna,
if you're on Zoom,
my meeting I.D. is 917-112-15
and the password is "Work work
work work work work from home."
Anyway, let's just get into it
without a segue.
The president suggested
the coronavirus could be cured
with disinfectants,
then said he was joking,
then threatened to stop doing
press briefings altogether,
which of course we know
he can't do
because he loves cameras
more than wasps love my attic.
There's the segue.
For more on this,
it's time for
"A Closer Look."
♪♪
I got to be honest, when we went
on hiatus a week ago,
I did not expect that
when we came back
I'd be talking about
the president suggesting
you could use disinfectants
and powerful lights
to cure coronavirus,
but then again that's on me.
I mean, I should have
expected it.
We should all know by now
Trump will be more outlandish
with each passing week
because that's his nature.
It's like the frog
and the scorpion fable.
I won't go through the whole
thing, but at the end,
the scorpion stings the frog,
and as they sink
to their deaths, the frog says,
"Why would you sting me?"
And the scorpion responds,
[As Trump] "Some people
are saying scorpion venom
is an effective treatment
for the coronavirus.
I'm not a doctor, but I have --
you know, I have heard that,
and what do you have to lose?
Blub, blub,
this is Obama's fault."
That was a scorpion drowning.
We have to expect this nonsense.
Looking back,
I should have known
I'd be doing my show
from the attic
before this was all over.
When Trump won in 2016,
I should have called up
the wardrobe department
and said,
"Hey, could I get a few more
shirts to put in my attic
in case I ever have to do
the show up there?"
And they would have said,
"How many?"
And I would have said,
"Five.
I mean, I can't imagine it will
be for more than a week."
And then they would have said,
"Okay,
but if it's more than a week,
you'll have to rotate shirts,"
And I'd say, "Guys, it's not
gonna be more than a week."
Long story short, this shirt
has now been on camera
more than any
recurring character
I ever did on "SNL."
So, congratulations, shirt.
Anyway, after the president said
that psychotic thing
in a White House briefing
last week,
he cycled through his usual
series of obviously BS excuses,
starting with the classic,
"I was just joking,"
because if there's one thing
people want from leadership
during a pandemic,
it's sarcasm,
and that was me
using sarcasm.
-I was asking a question
sarcastically to reporters
like you, just to see
what would happen.
But I was asking a sarcastic --
and a very sarcastic question
to the reporters in the room
about disinfectant
on the inside.
Okay.
-But you were asking your
medical experts to look into it.
-No. No, no, no.
-Were you being sarcastic
with them?
-To look into whether or not sun
and disinfectant on the hands,
but whether or not sun
can help us.
-You have two renowned
scientists working with you.
Why are you pitching ideas
like a 6th-century Druid?
"Maybe the sun can help us.
Have we thought about sun?"
More often than not,
Trump's ideas for solutions
are things that have always
been there
and require no work or effort
from him.
He's like a kid who forgot
it was show-and-tell.
"While I appreciate everything
my classmates
have brought in today, I would
like you to direct your eyes
out the window to an item
I brought
which is 100 times the
size of Earth."
"Did you forget, Tyler?
Did you forget it was
show-and-tell day?"
"I did. I did forget.
"Also, my diorama
is just my mouth."
And you were not talking
to reporters.
You turned to your
medical advisers,
directly addressed them,
and asked them
to look into it.
-And then I see the disinfectant
where it knocks it out
in a minute, one minute,
and is there a way we can do
something like that,
uh, by injection inside or --
or almost a cleaning?
Because you see it
gets in the lungs
and it does a tremendous
number on the lungs,
so it would be interesting
to check that,
so that you're going to have to
use medical doctors with.
But it sounds -- it sounds
interesting to me.
I would like you to speak
to the medical doctors
to see if there's any way
that you can apply
light and heat to cure,
you know?
If you could. And maybe
you can, maybe you can't.
Again, I say maybe you can,
maybe you can't.
I'm not a doctor.
But I'm like a person
that has a good, you know what.
-But, sir, you're
the president.
-Deborah, have you ever
heard of that...
the heat and the light
relative to certain viruses,
yes, but relative to
this virus?
-Just look at
Dr. Birx's face
while he's asking her
these insane questions.
If this keeps up, she's gonna
start wearing five more scarves.
And look, we just need to be
prepared.
This is going to keep happening.
Trump is a powerful dumb guy,
and he is friends with
other powerful dumb guys,
and they like to
call each other up
and pitch their dumb ideas
to each other.
The whole thing is like a
lifelong episode of "Shark Tank"
where no one has a good idea
and everyone wins.
"They're called sock gloves."
"Yeah, I'm in.
I'm in.
Yeah, we're all --
we're all in."
At his next press conference,
Trump's gonna tell people
they can replenish their energy
by eating one battery a day.
"Some people need double-A.
Some people need triple-A.
The other day, someone on the
street told me I'm a giant D."
Look, this matters,
sadly, because Trump is,
you know, he's the president,
and unfortunately,
people listen to him,
as Maryland's Republican
governor Larry Hogan
explained on Sunday.
-We had hundreds of calls come
into our emergency hotline
at our health department,
asking if it was right
to ingest Clorox
or, you know,
alcohol cleaning products,
whether that was going to help
them fight the virus.
So we had to put out that
warning to make sure
that people were not doing
something like that
which would kill people,
actually, to do it.
-Jesus.
Clorox is gonna have to add
a new warning to their labels.
"Keep away from children and the
President of the United States."
I mean, this idiot gets on TV
and pitches harebrained ideas
that are liable
to get people killed
because he thinks he's
a medical genius, and dude,
you're not Jonas Salk.
You're Jonas Sulk.
Remember, he began
this whole outbreak
by repeatedly ignoring
dire warnings
from public health officials
and claiming it would
go away like a miracle.
Now, over 50,000 Americans
are dead
and at least 26 million
are out of work,
and the president
is still insisting
there will be
a miraculous ending.
Over the weekend he tweeted,
"I never said that the
coronavirus is a 'Hoax,'
I said that the Democrats
and the way they lied about it
are a Hoax.
Also, it did start with
'one person from China,'
and then grew,
and will be a 'Miracle' end!"
No, it's not a miracle end
if in the process people die
or lose their jobs.
They wouldn't have called it
"The Miracle on Ice"
if the entire American
hockey team had drowned
in Lake Placid.
Also, this will end,
not because of a miracle,
but thanks to the hard work
of medical professionals
as well as the collective
efforts we're making
as a society
to slow the spread.
You know, hard work
and sacrifice.
But Trump can't recognize
either of those.
Trump is the kind of guy
who if you slaved all day
in the kitchen to make him
a four-course meal
would finish it and say,
"What's your secret?
Is it miracles?
I feel like I tasted miracles
in here."
This stuff is hurting him
politically.
When the coronavirus
outbreak first began,
and Trump was getting
free unlimited airtime
on all the news networks,
his poll numbers
actually went up
despite his dismal response,
which makes sense because
that's how Trump got popular
in the first place.
He was always on TV,
first "The Apprentice,"
then "Celebrity Apprentice,"
then his years as
a racist blowhard
who was always on cable news.
I'm pretty sure he even popped
up in those Liberty Mutual ads.
Remember, he was the guy
who said insurance
is a waste of money because
nothing bad ever happens,
and when it does
you just wait for miracles.
And then of course there was
his presidential run,
where cable networks
breathlessly awaited
his speeches by training their
cameras on his empty podium.
Remember that?
When the Democratic
candidate for president
had to compete for the media's
attention with furniture?
Trump loses this year,
who are the Republicans
gonna run in 2024?
A racist beanbag chair
that brags about how many women
have sat on him?
"Folks, I've seen more asses
than you'd believe."
Now, pollsters suspected Trump's
initial rise in the polls
was what they call a "rally
around the flag effect,"
in which Americans show
their support for the president
in a time of crisis.
And sure enough,
Trump's poll numbers
have already begun to
fall again.
"Trump's approval rating is down
significantly from 49% in March,
while his disapproval rating
is up 9% from 45%.
Trump had the shortest rally
around the flag event
in modern
presidential history."
Which is surprising for a guy
who knows a thing or two
about rallying around the flag.
I mean, my God, these two look
like they just met in person
for the first time
on "Love is Blind,"
and you can tell immediately
from the flag's reaction
she is not into it.
This is a classic
Jessica-Mark situation.
And yes, I did watch all of
"Love is Blind" in two days.
And I have said it before,
but when this is all over
and we all have a lot
less on our plates,
we need to talk about Jessica.
Anyway, the point is this --
it can be maddening
in a crisis like this
to see Trump up at that podium
every day
yelling at reporters and telling
people, you know, to huff Lysol,
or Mitch McConnell doling out
tax breaks to big corporations
while decrying so-called
blue state bailouts.
Or small groups of unhinged
right wing protesters
screaming at nurses funded by
conservative groups
and cheered on by Fox News.
But just remember that these
people have always been
and continue to be
massively unpopular.
Just take the protesters.
Polls show Americans
overwhelmingly support
the social distancing measures
used to fight coronavirus.
You just don't see them on TV,
because they're in their houses.
And nobody can see your signs
when you're in your houses.
So Trump's numbers are already
falling again
even as other world leaders
facing similar crises
have won praise
for their responses.
Just take New Zealand's
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern,
whose handling has won more than
80% approval,
well above any leader
in the Group of Seven
wealthy democracies.
80%?
The only way Donald Trump could
ever get an 80% approval rating
is from himself.
Like over the weekend
when he tweeted,
"Remember, the Cure can't be
worse than the problem itself.
Be careful, be safe,
use common sense!"
And then one of his other
personalities replied
to that tweet and said,
"So true!"
He's just fully talking
to himself now.
Please, Fauci, Birx,
just give him an unplugged mic,
sit him down
in front of a mirror,
and he'll be perfectly happy.
"This guy, this guy giving this
speech is making a lot of sense.
I hope he's not being sarcastic.
I like what he's saying."
In fact, if he sits on the lawn
and holds the mirror
under his chin, he could even
cure himself with some...
-Light and heat.
-So New Zealand has effectively
contained the outbreak.
In fact, experts believe
New Zealand could succeed
in eliminating COVID-19.
So how is New Zealand doing it?
Obviously there are giant
differences
between their country and ours.
But for one thing, their
prime minister is a sane,
normal person, which is nice.
Instead of self-aggrandizing
mini rallies where she theorizes
about blasting powerful lights
into your eyes like we're all
experimental patients
in "A Clockwork Orange,"
she holds both
formal press conferences
and also more informal
Facebook Live chats
where she updates residents
on the country's
strict lockdown measures.
-And I thought that I would
jump online very quickly
and just give another summary.
Perhaps a shorter one than the
one that we did at 1:00 today,
announcing what the rest
of the alert level framework
looks like.
You'll be pleased to know
that we do consider
both the Tooth Fairy
and the Easter Bunny to be
essential workers.
But as you can imagine
at this time,
of course they're
going to be potentially
quite busy at home
with their family as well
and their own bunnies.
And so I say to the children
of New Zealand,
if the Easter Bunny doesn't
make it to your household,
then we have to understand
that it's a bit difficult
at the moment for the
Bunny to perhaps get everywhere.
-I mean, can you imagine
Donald Trump addressing
the nation's children
on the status of Tooth Fairy
or the Easter Bunny?
For one thing, every time they
appear in public together,
Trump rambles so much
even the Easter Bunny looks like
he wants to mainline Clorox
into his veins.
Or maybe, I don't know,
he already did.
"You ready for the White House
Easter egg roll?"
"Yeah, just, um --- just get me
a glass of bleach first."
Obviously the geographic
realities of life in New Zealand
are very different,
but there are still lessons
we can learn from how
they and other countries
have successful dealt
with this crisis
and begun to slowly reopen
their economies in a safe way.
And some states are trying
to learn lessons
from other countries.
Like Germany, which has begun
opening some businesses,
like book shops
and auto dealerships.
Germany is employing a technique
known as contact tracing,
which we desperately need here.
And New Jersey's health
commissioner said this weekend
that she has spoken with
Germany's health minister
about the steps they'd taken
to implement that program
and reopen the economy.
-He emphasized the importance
of robust testing
to help to quickly
identify new cases
as well as their contacts
so they can be isolated
immediately.
They are being very aggressive
in their contact tracing,
using a team of 5 officers
for every 20,000 members
of the community
to trace people who
have come into recent contact
with every confirmed case.
Their experience
can inform our efforts
as we look ahead
to ease some of our
social distancing restrictions
in the state and increase
our testing capacity.
-First of all, that is
valuable information.
And it's crazy that individual
states have to get it themselves
instead of, you know,
the federal government.
Second, I think the best thing
about that to me
is imagining describing
what New Jersey is like
to a German.
[ German accent ]
"So you identify yourself
not by the town you live in,
but by the exit you're from?
And this man,
you call him The Boss
even though he is not yet
your direct supervisor?
And is it not difficult
to travel
when your highways are jammed
with broken heroes
on a last-chance power drive?"
And yet not only are we failing
to adopt those techniques
nationwide, Trump's sycophants
are actually mocking the idea
of contact tracing.
Last week the president's
chinless gargoyle Rudy Giuliani
went on Fox host
Laura Ingraham's show,
where the two laughed about
how ridiculous it was
for New York City to implement
contact tracing for coronavirus.
-Michael Bloomberg is going to
handle the tracing,
army of tracers in New York,
we learned today from Cuomo.
-Well, that's totally
ridiculous.
-Yeah, I know, army of tracers.
-Then we should trace
everybody for cancer.
-Yeah, army of tracers.
-We should trace everybody
for cancer and heart disease,
and uh, and obesity and --
I mean, a lot of things kill you
more than COVID-19.
-Well --
-So we should be traced
for all those things.
-Yeah, man, I hate when someone
sneezes on me
and I catch heart disease.
You know what else
we should trace? Brain worms.
Because I'm pretty sure you guys
are spreading them around.
And by the way,
just a tip, Rudy,
no one's going to think
you're smart
just because you
started wearing glasses.
All it does is make you look
like Dr. Bunsen Honeydew
went on a meth bender.
Adding glasses isn't going to
suddenly make you look
like a gentleman of letters.
"Well, well, well.
Who's that
scholarly kumquat?
We could easily be learning
important lessons
from other countries
and implementing techniques
like mass testing,
like contact tracing
on a nationwide basis
to safely and slowly reopen
parts of our country.
Instead, the president
is musing about using
disinfectants
and powerful lights
to clean out the lungs
and having conversations
with himself on Twitter.
I got to be honest,
at this point
I think something might be
wrong with his...
-You know what.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
♪♪
We've been talking about
City Harvest on our show,
and they've asked us
to thank you
for your generous donations,
so let's keep going.
With unemployment skyrocketing,
they're keeping
their trucks full
to feed the growing number
of New Yorkers
who are turning to them
to put food on their tables.
If you're watching this online,
please hit the "donate" button.
Stay safe. Wash your hands.
We love you.